# Inverse Text Normalization (ITN) with WFST

This project implements a Weighted Finite State Transducer (WFST) model for performing Inverse Text Normalization (ITN) on tokenized text, such as numbers, abbreviations, and similar sequences. The WFST model can handle tasks in multiple languages, including English, Hindi and other indic and non indic laguages.

## Project Structure

- **`wfst_tutorial.ipynb`**: An interactive, beginner-friendly tutorial that introduces users to the core concepts of the WFST model and its usage for ITN tasks. New users are encouraged to explore this notebook to get started.
  
- **`wfst_tester.ipynb`**: A testing notebook with implemented WFST models for performing ITN on English and Hindi numbers. Use this notebook to see the model in action and test various cases.

- **`ui.py`**: A user interface built using Streamlit to interactively evaluate the ITN system for English numerical text. This UI allows users to input text and see the corresponding output generated by the ITN WFST.

## Setting Up the Environment

1. **Clone the repository**:
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/Divyanshudiv/ITN
   cd ITN
   ```

2. **Create a virtual environment: Use Python’s venv module to create an isolated environment for the project**:
   ```bash
   python -m venv itn
   ```

3. **Activate the environment**:

     On macOS/Linux:
     ```bash
     source itn/bin/activate
     ```
     On Windows:
     ```bash
     itn\Scripts\activate
     ```

5. **Install dependencies: Install all the required packages listed in requirements.txt**:
     ```bash
     python -m pip install -r requirements.txt
     ```

## Running the WFST Model

1. **Jupyter Notebook Interface**

Open wfst_tutorial.ipynb in Jupyter Notebook for a step-by-step guide to WFST and its ITN applications.

Test the WFST on English and Hindi numbers using the wfst_tester.ipynb.

2. **Streamlit UI for ITN Evaluation**

To evaluate the WFST model for English number ITN interactively, use the Streamlit-based UI:

   Launch the UI:
  ```bash
  streamlit run ui.py
  ```
Access the web interface through the provided URL in your terminal. You can input text, and the model will display the normalized output.
